1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?
	-A variable is an element used to declare different types of information in our code. we use it to 
make our code more readable, to simplify and better define our work.

2.  If the value of first_name is "Abraham" and last_name is "Lincoln", explain the order in which Ruby will run the line full_name = first_name + last_name, and what the final result will be. 
	-Ruby will first add the variables on the right side of the equation and then assign the new expression to the variable on the left

3. For each of the following data types, write a short definition and give at least one example of when you might use the data type in a program. (Don't use an example we've already provided.)

string - a series of characters “a1b2c3”
integer - a number with no decimal point: 44
float - a number with a decimal point: 4.4
nil - this expression is used to define that there is no information at the moment in this place. if I ask to see what is in a certain index that is empty, I will get “nil”.
boolean - a true or false statement.

4. What is an algorithm?
	-A methodical path to completing a task

5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science? 
	a. searching
	b. sorting

6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?
	- A method is a task that is fulfilled inside a set of commands within your code. a programer will use it when an action needs to be used in several different places in their code
of when a few tasks are combined to create the final outcome. 

7. Define the following terms as they relate to a method. 
return value - the last piece of information given by the method
side effect - a piece of information that is created within the method, but is not the return value.
parameter - a variable that is an integral part of the methods definition 
argument - what we use to call a method within the code.
implicit return - a last value that comes from the method without a specific return command  


8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?
 - A global scope is the information available throughout the entire code, no matter where you are - loop, method or any other element. a method scope is the information 
available only within the method. once the method is done, unless defined otherwise, the variables from within the method won’t continue on outside of it. 

9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?
	-Control flow allows us to navigate throughout the code, create conditions, loop and return.

10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.

loop - an action that repeats itself within the code. can be limited by numbers or statements.
if - a statement that conditions the action within it
else - if non of the other conditions is met, what comes after “else” will occur 
elsif - another possible condition that could be fullfiled
while - a loop that will continue as long as the conditioned statement is true  
until - a loop that will continue as long as the conditioned statement is false